README.md, before:

# StardewM1Mod

This project is a [Stardew Valley mod](https://stardewvalleywiki.com/Modding:Player_Guide/Getting_Started) that adds the **"MiniScript M-1 Home Computer"**.

This is a computer that connects to the TV in your cabin.  Despite its early-80s appearance, it actually runs a very modern and elegant language, [MiniScript](https://miniscript.org).  (See [Why MiniScript](https://luminaryapps.com/blog/miniscript-why/), if you're curious.)


![Screen shot of the M-1 Home Computer](img/Demo-1.gif)


## Near-Term To-Do List
- add a /usr disk for user files
	- under save folder; see https://stardewvalleywiki.com/Saves#Find_your_save_files
- add basic bot movement: `forward`, `turn`
- add basic bot sensing: `position`, `facing`, `itemAt`, `itemAhead`
- add inventory APIs: `inventory`, `select`
- add `useTool` API
- add a /sys disk with a startup script and demo directory; add `dir`, `load`, and `run`
- implement the `text` module (`text.row`, `text.color`, etc.)
- implement the `key` module (at least `key.available` and `key.get`)
- create a code editor (using the text display, perhaps modeled after [nano](https://www.nano-editor.org/)); add `edit`, `source`, `save`


## Feature Ideas

- Display object: can display color/message in the world; tileable to make any size Jumbotron
- M-1 Home Computer (accessed via your TV)
  - 40x20 text display
  - can change screen color, border color, text color, and text background
  - PixelDisplay for drawing?
  - APIs to get information about what's in the world (crops, rocks, trees, NPCs, etc.)
  - file system for saving files
    - /usr for files local to  just the M-1
    - /net for files shared by all computers/bots in the game
  - network messaging system for communicating with bots
- Bots
  - craftable (out of what?)
  - able to move wherever a farmer can walk
  - able to use any tool they are equipped with
    - farming, mining, chopping, planting seeds, watering, etc.
  - inventory (12 spaces)
  - built-in computer terminal
    - same screen size & capabilities as the M-1 Home Computer
      - screen color is visible in world view
    - additional APIs to interact with the world:
      - pickUp
      - drop
      - select (tool)
      - use (tool, or whatever's selected)
      - turn N/E/S/W
      - forward/backup (number of tiles)
      - status light (settable; automatically turns red if error)
  - certain kinds of interaction with vendor NPCs:
  	- buy/sell seeds and other goods at Pierre's
  	- buy/sell goods, upgrade tools, and crack geodes at Clint's
    - buy/sell goods from Willy at the Fish Shop
  - can craft things (same as the player)
  - can attach/remove bait on fishing rod
  - speak to the player: "!" icon appears above the bot, and when left-clicked, starts a programmable dialogue (like speaking to an NPC)

Commit message:

Updated README with some basic how-to-play instructions.

README.md, after:

# StardewM1Mod

This project is a [Stardew Valley mod](https://stardewvalleywiki.com/Modding:Player_Guide/Getting_Started) that adds the **"MiniScript M-1 Home Computer"**, as well as programmable **bots**.

This is a computer that connects to the TV in your cabin.  Despite its early-80s appearance, it actually runs a very modern and elegant language, [MiniScript](https://miniscript.org).  (See [Why MiniScript](https://luminaryapps.com/blog/miniscript-why/), if you're curious.)


![Screen shot of the M-1 Home Computer](img/Demo-1.gif)

## How to Play
1. The mod is not yet available in precompiled form.  So you will need to install Visual Studio or MonoDevelop, clone this repo, and Build it yourself.
2. To use the **M-1 Home Computer**:
  1. Activate the TV in your house.
  2. Select the bottom-most option, *MiniScript M-1 Home Computer*.
  3. Type code at the prompt.  See https://miniscript.org for documentation on the language (and in particular, be sure to keep the [Quick Reference](https://miniscript.org/files/MiniScript-QuickRef.pdf) handy).
  4. Press **Esc** to exit.
3. To create and use a **bot**:
  1. Make sure you have a free space to your left.
  2. Press the **Page Up** key to spawn a bot.  (For now!)
  3. Right-click a bot to access its computer console.
  4. Type code at the prompt.  This is the same code as on the Home Computer, but allows for some additional commands, like `position`, `left`, `right`, `forward`, `inventory`, `currentToolIndex` (which can be assigned to), and `useTool`.


## Near-Term To-Do List
- add a /usr disk for user files; add `dir`, `load`, and `run`
	- under save folder; see https://stardewvalleywiki.com/Saves#Find_your_save_files
- add basic bot movement: `forward`, `turn`
- add basic bot sensing: `position`, `facing`, `itemAt`, `itemAhead`
- add inventory APIs: `inventory`, `select`
- add `useTool` API
- add a /sys disk with a startup script and demo directory
- implement the `text` module (`text.row`, `text.color`, etc.)
- implement the `key` module (at least `key.available` and `key.get`)
- create a code editor (using the text display, perhaps modeled after [nano](https://www.nano-editor.org/)); add `edit`, `source`, `save`


## Feature Ideas

- Display object: can display color/message in the world; tileable to make any size Jumbotron
- M-1 Home Computer (accessed via your TV)
  - 40x20 text display
  - can change screen color, border color, text color, and text background
  - PixelDisplay for drawing?
  - APIs to get information about what's in the world (crops, rocks, trees, NPCs, etc.)
  - file system for saving files
    - /usr for files local to  just the M-1
    - /net for files shared by all computers/bots in the game
  - network messaging system for communicating with bots
- Bots
  - craftable (out of what?)
  - able to move wherever a farmer can walk
  - able to use any tool they are equipped with
    - farming, mining, chopping, planting seeds, watering, etc.
  - inventory (12 spaces)
  - built-in computer terminal
    - same screen size & capabilities as the M-1 Home Computer
      - screen color is visible in world view
    - additional APIs to interact with the world:
      - pickUp
      - drop
      - select (tool)
      - use (tool, or whatever's selected)
      - turn N/E/S/W
      - forward/backup (number of tiles)
      - status light (settable; automatically turns red if error)
  - certain kinds of interaction with vendor NPCs:
  	- buy/sell seeds and other goods at Pierre's
  	- buy/sell goods, upgrade tools, and crack geodes at Clint's
    - buy/sell goods from Willy at the Fish Shop
  - can craft things (same as the player)
  - can attach/remove bait on fishing rod
  - speak to the player: "!" icon appears above the bot, and when left-clicked, starts a programmable dialogue (like speaking to an NPC)
